# Built-In-Self-Test-BIST-on-a-4-bit-ALU-using-Verilog
**Objective of this project:** To implement Built in Self Test(BIST) on a 4-Bit ALU in Verilog.<br>
**Software Used:** Vivado<br>
<br>
**Theory**<br>
Built-In Self-Test (BIST) is a Design for Testability (DFT) technique in which additional hardware is integrated into a digital circuit to enable it to generate test patterns, analyze responses, and verify its own functionality without relying on extensive external test equipment. <br>
<br>
A BIST architecture comprises of mainly 4 blocks:

**1)Test Pattern Generator(TPG):** This generates various test patterns which are given to Circuit Under Test (CUT) to verify its functional correctness and detect faults.<br>
**2)Circuit Under Test (CUT):** Here the circuit in which BIST is tested on is placed to identify whether it is fault free or not.<br>
**3)Ouput Response Analyser(ORA):** This recievs the oupts of teh CUT as inputs and gienerates signatures which are to be compared using the comparator.<br>
**4)Comparator:** This compares the signature generated by the CUT to that with the golden signature and detects whether the circuit is faulty or not.<br>

**TPG(Test Pattern Generator)** <br>
For TPG I have used a **12-bit standard LFSR of polynomial x^12+x^6+x^4+x+1**. LFSR stands for Linear Feedback Shift Register. It consists of 12 D flipflops and a feedback path from the last flipflop to the first flipflop . This generates 4095 test vectors 12 bit each and has an initial seed value of 100000000000.

**CUT(Circuit Undert Test)** <br>
For CUT i have taken a 4-bit ALU(Arithmentic Logic Unit ).It consists of 8 arithmetic operations as follows:<br>
ADD<br>
SUB<br>
AND<br>
OR<br>
XOR<br>
NOT<br>
LEFT SHIFT<br>
RIGHT SHIFT<br>

It accepts **2 4-bit values A and B ,input carry Cin and 3-bit opcode** to select operation as inputs and gives outputs **4-bit Result,Carry(Ouptut Carry) and Borrow(Output Borrow)**.<br>

**Ouput Response Analyser(ORA):** <br>
For ORA,i have uesed a **6-bit MISR (Mulitiple Input Signature Register)**, which generates 6-bit Signature and compares with the golden signature in comparator. That final signature for the fault-free ALU ie CUT here is called the golden signature.It consists of 6 D flipflops<br>

**Comparator** <br>
The comparator compares the generated signature by the MISR to the golden signature and if CUT is fault free it PASS else not.<br>










